# Useful information about news articles for "/Aktuelles"

## General

A separate .md file needs to be manually created for each news item and stored under “content/news”. When the "/Neuigkeiten" page is loaded, this folder is crawled by the “pages/api/loader_news.js” script and a JSON structure is transferred to the client, which has an object with the following structure for each file:

_Object_ <br>
├─ uuid (automatically generated)<br>
├─ title\* (title of the article)<br>
├─ excerpt\* (brief description of the article for the preview)<br>
├─ cta (call to action, text shown in button on the slider on the homepage)<br>
├─ author* (author of the article)<br>
├─ publishDate* (Publication date of the article)<br>
├─ image\* (Cover image of the article)<br>
├─ tags[] (array of tags)<br>
├─ published (boolean, which decides if an article is published, false if not stated)<br>
├─ eventInfos:<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;├─ date (date of the event)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;├─ time (startting time of the event)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;├─ location (location of the event)<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;├─ locationlink (optional, e.g. Google Maps)<br>
├─ content\* (content of the article)<br>

\*Mandatory information, otherwise the post will not be published.

- **uuid** is generated by the server script (concatenation of publishDate and title). This combination should be unique, as it is highly unlikely that multiple posts with the same title will be published on the same day. The UUID forms the basis for the URL, so it must be unique.
- **excerpt** may be a maximum of ten words long; from the eleventh word onwards, it is abbreviated with "...". The excerpt is displayed in the overview under 'News' and in the search results (after clicking on a tag or the author's name). The maximum number of words can be adjusted in the server script "pages/api/loader_news.js".
- **cta** can be omitted, then the button in the slider on the home page simply says "Mehr erfahren"
- **author** should be unique (there should not be two authors with the same name). The reason for this is that clicking on the name will display all posts by the author with that name.
- **publishDate** must be specified in the format YYYY-MM-DD. It is possible to specify a date in the future, in which case the post will only be published from that date onwards. This allows posts to be produced in advance.
- **image** is the link to the post image, which should usually be located in public/images/news.
- **eventinfos**: The information here is only required if the news item is an event announcement. If this is not the case, the corresponding fields can be left blank (empty string) or removed.
  - Here too, the date must be entered in the format YYYY-MM-DD, and the time in hh:mm.

## Create a new article

The best way to do this is to copy the following template and save it under content/news in accordance with the usual file naming convention (see below). Then adjust the metadata (front matter) and, of course, the content:

```
---
title: "insert title here"
excerpt: "insert excerpt here"
cta: "insert cta here (button text)"
author: "insert author here"
publishDate: "YYYY-MM-DD"
image: "/public/images/news/example.jpg"
published: true
eventinfos:
  date: "YYYY-MM-DD"
  time: "hh:mm"
  location: "insert name and address of the location here"
  locationlink: "fitting link, e.g. Google Maps or the location's website"
---

Hallo zusammen,
Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet.

Eure Fachschaft IWI

```

Markdown-typical markups such as **bold** and _italics_ can be used within the article text, as can bullet points (lists). Headlines from H1 to H6 should be avoided.

## File naming

The naming of the files is actually irrelevant (as long as they are not called “readme.md”, which is logically filtered out by the script). Nevertheless, care should be taken to use consistent naming, e.g. “2025-04-06_Title-of-the-news.md”.

[Back to documentation index](./readme.md)
